# Greenhouse-Environmental-Control-System

Greenhouse Environment Control System forms an important part of the agriculture and horticulture sectors in our country as they can be used to grow plants under controlled climatic conditions for optimum produce. Appropriate environmental conditions are necessary for optimum plant growth, improved crop yields, and efficient use of water and other resources. Main focus of this project is to design a simple, easy to use, micro-controller based circuit which monitor and record the values of temperature, humidity and pH level of the natural environment that are continuously modified and controlled.
	 The system has a pH sensor immersed in water which continuously measure the pH value and DHT 11 sensor senses the temperature and humidity level inside the room (greenhouse), both sensors sends the mandatory information to the microcontroller, the microcontroller in turn processes the input and then controls the motors and electronic equipments connected to it through relays. These motors are generally used to control the addition of nutrients and pH controlling elements. If the pH level goes low then acid is added while in the other case when the pH goes high above the pre-set value then base is added. Required amount of fertilizer is added on daily basis. If humidity level goes above the pre-set value then exhaust fan will be turned on still it comes to normal state, no change will happen if it goes below the pre-set value. If the temperature goes above pre-set value cooling fan will be turned on, if it goes below the pre-set value, heater will be turned on. The light will be turned on for 16 hours in a day. A real-time clock (RTC) is a computer clock (most often in the form of an integrated circuit) that keeps track of the current time.
 
